CONSTABLE DOGBERRY'S MOST EXCELLENT TREATISE ON ETTYCATE

Being a Guide to Prosper Behavior and Good Man-Hers,
As Taught by Constable Dogberry, a Man of Great Desart
in Matters of Po-lightness and So-sigh-able Conduct


TO THE READER:

Good morrow, gentle reader! I, Dogberry, being a man of some considerable reputation in matters of ettycate and po-lightness, have taken it upon myself to instruct thee in the prosper costumes of so-sigh-ity. For there is no man living who knows better than I what it is to be a gentle-man of true desart and respectacle bearing.

Though some vagrom men might question my comprehension of these matters, I assure thee that I am as well-mannered as any man living that is an old man and no honester than I - nay, I mean more honest! These lessons, which I have learned through much study and vigilant observation, shall make thee a true gentle-man or lay-dee of the first water, and shall fit thee to move in the most fashionable circles with confidence and grace.

Mark well what I teach thee, for these are the very rules that govern the behavior of all respectacle purr-sons in so-sigh-ity, and to know them is to be comprehended - which is to say, to be understood - as a purr-son of breeding and cultivation!


ON THE ENTERING OF SO-SIGH-ITY

Now attend well, for this is a matter of great importation! When thou art called upon to cast aside thy youthful irresponsibilities and enter into so-sigh-ity as a man or woman, thou must prepare thyself most vigilantly, or else thou shalt suffer the mortification - nay, the humiliation - of appearing a fool before all who behold thee.

I recall the tale of young Falconbridge, who entered into so-sigh-ity without any knowledge of the prosper forms, and did make such a spectacle of himself that he was forced to leave the settlement most aspiciously - which is to say, most hastily and in great shame! This poor fellow, being bashful and disconcerted, did carry his hat into the parlor when the servant tried to take it, did shake a lay-dee's hand most vigorously when he should have bowed, did tread upon her toes in the dance, did sit upon his own hat and crush it flat as a pancake, and did finally knock over the astral lamp and fall senseless in the dark!

By which I mean to say, gentle reader, that ignorance of ettycate is a terrible thing, and shall lead to consequences most odorous - odious, rather - and shall cause thee to be remembered with contempt instead of with respect.

The great error that young Falconbridge made was that he waited too long before entering so-sigh-ity, and therefore was not familiar with the prosper forms. 'Tis better to enter so-sigh-ity early, whilst thou art still young, and to learn by degrees the confidence and reliance that shall carry thee bravely through even the most brilliant assemblies.

But mark this well: in seeking to overcome bashfulness, thou must be careful to avoid the very common extreme of forwardness! For bashfulness is but a fault that may be corrected, whilst forwardness is a sin most tolerable - intolerable, I mean - and argues a sad want of breeding. To be forward, rude, and intrusive is to show thyself a benefactor - nay, a malefactor - to good manners!

And I must speak particularly to the young lay-dees who romp and banter words with provoking young men, and win the name of being "independent" - for such conduct is most un-feminine and shall injure thy character in the estimation of all well-mannered purr-sons. Be gay, be cheerful, but preserve the delicacy and refinement which are the surest virtues for conquering admiration!

As for Snobs - why, they are simply nuisances, and should be regarded as an extensive species of ape! Their whole mind is given to the tie of their cravat and their boots absorb all their philosophy. They know not what constitutes good breeding, being rude as the monkey is rude!

And Fops, who make a silly display of dry goods and jewelry - well, they place a virtue in goods which does not belong to it, elevating perishable commodities above the truer and nobler attributes of mind!

And Bores - marry, they are the worst of all! For a Bore is one who intrudes upon persons' time or company without knowing when to leave, when to cease conversation, when to offer attentions. I once knew a lay-dee who was a most unmitigated Bore of the benevolent school - she would force herself into my study at any moment, and would make me hear what I did not wish to hear, and give what I did not think it right to give! Such purr-sons are most comprehensible - I mean, most incomprehensible - in their rudeness!

The great secret to being at ease in so-sigh-ity is to forget thyself so far as to become one of the number - to lose thyself in the feeling of non-individualism, which is a sense of abandon most desartless of cultivation! Give thyself no particular anxiety about thy person or thy words - for anxiety breeds a disquiet which is fatal to enjoyment. Good-nature is every thing in so-sigh-ity, as in business - it overcomes many a mountain of difficulty!


ON THE MAKING OF VISITS

Visits hold a first place among the gentilities of life, and deserve attention most vigilant! There are many kinds of visits - visits of mere form and policy, visits of real friendship, visits of congratulation and of condolence, visits to give out invitations, visits of state to eminent purr-sons, and so forth.

Mark these rules most carefully:

First, the time for making a visit is after twelve o'clock at noon, for before that hour the lay-dee of the house is supposed to be busy at her household duties. Never make a call before that hour, or thou shalt be voted a terrible inconvenience!

Second, occupy but a brief time in thy call - fifteen or twenty minutes at most - for thou knowest not how much the lay-dee may have to do, nor where she may wish to go. If thou stayest too long, thou shalt be comprehended as a Bore!

Third, never forget to enter the room with thoroughly-cleaned boots! Always use the scraper and mats at the door, for to track mud into a lay-dee's parlor is a sin most odorous!

Fourth, if thou hast a cane, keep it in thy hand, and be careful not to make much noise with thy boots. And beware of asking the hour, or of taking out thy watch during a visit - 'tis most impolite and suggests that thou art eager to depart!

Fifth, avoid spitting on the floor - thy pocket-handkerchief will serve thy purpose! To spit on a lay-dee's carpet is a vulgarity most tolerable - intolerable - and shall mark thee as a person of no breeding whatsoever!

Sixth, to place thy hat on any article of furniture when thou enterest a room is ungenteel - to lay it on a bed is unpardonable! Thou must hold it in thy hand, or leave it in the anteroom. And if thou art invited to lay down thy hat, place it beside thee, not before thee!

Seventh, a young man will avoid sitting in an arm-chair, which should always be awarded to the lay-dees or old gentle-men present. Leave the seat next the fire to thy superiors in age or position!

Eighth, never look about thee in a room as if thou wert making an inventory! 'Tis most rude to stare at people's possessions as if thou wert counting their worth!

Ninth, the gloves should not be removed during a visit. To brush thy hat with thy hand will expose thee to the charge of extreme vulgarity!

Tenth, crossing the legs and stretching them out at full length are equally improper! Sit modestly and keep thy limbs in prosper order!

Now, as to particular kinds of visits:

Visits of congratulation upon occasion of marriage should be made as early as the parties seem ready for such visits. 'Tis now the practice for newly-married people to send out their cards, and if thou failest to respond by calling, they cannot consistently recognize thee afterward - which would be a mortification most terrible!

Visits of condolence to those who have suffered a loss by death are too much neglected in this fast country! The call should be brief, and thy words of the kindest and most considerate character, for it will greatly relieve the pangs of sorrow to feel that others are solicitous for their welfare.

After thou hast attended a party or soiree, 'tis prosper to call upon thy host within a fortnight, to make inquiries after his health and to remark upon the pleasure thou experienced. This is a pleasant way of showing that their efforts to please thee are appreciated!

On New Year's day, many houses are open for general calls, when all who are friends of the host may enter. But mark this well: 'tis not prosper for a perfect stranger to enter and introduce himself just because the door is open! Even the freedom of New Year's day will not excuse such a liberty!


ON THE FORMULA OF INTRODUCTIONS

Now attend to this matter most carefully, for introductions require great delicacy and comprehension!

The same form is always observed: "Let me introduce to you Mr. B.," or "Mr. Jones, allow me to present to you Mr. Smith." But mark this well - thou must introduce no purr-son until thou art sure it is agreeable to both parties! Lay-dees should always be asked if they wish to know Mr. So-and-so ere he is presented to them!

The rule invariably - which is to say, always and without exception - is to introduce gentle-men TO lay-dees, not lay-dees to gentle-men! Or, in case of men to men, always present the younger to the older, the lesser to the greater!

We Americans, in our disregard of rank and position, are too apt to overlook these courtesies. The custom of indiscriminate introductions is carried to such a ridiculous extent that it has been made the subject of comment by foreigners! For every one has a right to exercise his own judgment in the selection of acquaintances, and 'tis clearly a breach of po-lightness to thrust them upon thy friend without knowing whether it will be agreeable to either party!

By which I mean to say, gentle reader, that thou shouldst not go about introducing every Tom, Dick, and Harry to every Jane, Mary, and Susan without first determining whether they wish to be acquainted! For such promiscuous introductions are a vulgarity most comprehensible - I mean, most inexcusable!


ON DRESS AND ORNAMENTS

A man is judged of by his appearance, and seldom incorrectly! A neat exterior, equally free from extravagance and poverty, always proclaims a right-minded and senseless man - sensible, rather! To dress appropriately and with good taste is to respect thyself and others.

For gentle-men, mark these rules:

A black coat and trowsers are indispensable for a visit of ceremony, an entertainment, an evening party, or a ball. The white or black vest is prosper in any of these cases. Always wear gloves - kids for dancing! A gentle-man, when in dress and out of his business, should walk out gloved.

Rings and heavy gold chains are NOT in good taste! Some young purr-sons have a strong desire to sport gold and jewels, but let them remember that such is the taste of gamblers and courtesans - which is to say, of benefactors - malefactors - of the worst sort! Too much jewelry is vulgar beyond measure!

For lay-dees, the toilet is indeed a study, to which she should devote a prosper portion of her time! But all must beware the charge of vulgarity. We sometimes see dresses in which the ill-assorted or showy colors spoil the effect of the richest material. The various articles of dress must be well-chosen so as to produce an agreeable harmony!

Never put on a dark-colored bonnet with a light spring costume! Avoid uniting colors which will suggest an epigram - such as a straw-colored dress with a green bonnet! For unless thou hast an extremely fair complexion, thy malicious rivals will assert that thy face resembles a citron surrounded by its foliage!

The arrangement of the hair is an important affair most comprehensible! Avoid a cumbrous edifice of lace mixed with hair, and let thy flowers be few and choice. A spray or two of heath, the delicate blossoms of the jessamine, violets, orange blossoms, a white rose - these simple ornaments are most suitable to a young girl. For beauty unadorned is adorned the most!

In a married woman, a richer style of ornament is admissible - feathers in her bonnet, a necklace, jewels in her hair. But for a young girl, a style of modest simplicity is far more impressive and becoming!

'Tis a fact most desartless of attention that lay-dees dressed with the most studied simplicity attract the most observation, whilst those with most ornament are treated with less deference! Therefore, let simplicity be thy guide, not display!

And mark this most important maxim: the most elegant dress loses its merit if it is not worn with grace! Young girls often have an air of constraint, and their dress seems to partake of their want of ease. She is indeed fortunate who can give an easy flexibility to her figure and graceful movements to her head - she will always appear graceful and well-dressed, even in simple garments!


ON CLEANLINESS AND FASTIDIOUS-NESS

If there be one thing that I should recommend more than another, 'tis cleanliness! For without cleanliness, all thy other efforts at gentility shall be in vain!

The hands should receive special attention, as they serve for a specimen of the rest. Every morning wash them with plenty of soap and water, then with the brush clean thy nails, cut them, and beware of the dark crescent which gets the name of half-mourning - nothing can be more disgusting!

Let thy face and neck be clean - I particularly recommend attention to the ears! For a dirty ear is an abomination most odorous to all who behold it!

Rinse thy mouth often - in the morning to remove the impurities of the night, after dinner to avoid making others acquainted with the meats thou hast partaken of, and at night before retiring to rest that thou mayest sleep more sweetly!

If thou art given to the really filthy habit of using tobacco in any shape, NEVER appear in any social circle with the odor of the stuff about thee! Let thy use of it be as much in secret as possible! No gentle-man will ever smoke a cigar where its smoke can give the least offense! In Boston, smoking is positively prohibited in the streets - it should be in every city, for the smell is most tolerable - intolerable - to all purr-sons of refined sensibilities!

Frequent baths are absolutely necessary, and still more, frequent foot-baths with tepid water and soap! For the dust that one acquires in walking changes its name at the end of three days, and in making a call, thy friends will be aware of thy presence before they have seen thee - which is to say, they shall smell thee coming like a benefactor of odorous character!

Nothing is more disagreeable in either sex than soiled shoes or stockings! It shows either great negligence or uncleanliness! Let thy linen be perfectly white and thy dress spotless!

How often do we see women walking in the street with a torn or frayed dress, or a broken stocking! Idleness alone is the cause of such things! 'Tis so easy to stop a rent, and certainly it cannot be said that thread is dear!

A dress ever so simple and cheap, if it be neat, is preferable to finery and dirt - one is respectacle, the other is not!

In the pocket-handkerchief, great nicety should be observed! It should be white and always clean! A dirty handkerchief is an abomination most comprehensible! A drop of perfume on it will make it all the pleasanter to thyself and to others!

Perfect cleanliness in all things gives one a feeling of self-respect! It not only affords an agreeable sensation of comfort, but imparts an air of confidence, springing from the consciousness that thou needest not fear the investigations or ridicule of any who approach thee!

By which I mean to say, gentle reader, that if thou art clean in thy person and thy garments, thou shalt walk with thy head held high, whilst if thou art dirty and slovenly, thou shalt slink about like a vagrom fellow most ashamed of himself!


ON CONVERSATION AND PERSONAL ADDRESS

'Tis rare to meet with purr-sons who can converse agreeably! And yet how many kinds of talkers there are in the world! First comes the man who details his own adventures, bringing in even his boyish escapades - he is a Bore most tolerable! Then there is the gastronomic talker who regales thee with descriptions of famous dishes - most tedious! The detailer of empty trifles, the universal grumbler who sees nothing of the sun but its spots, the self-constituted reporter of every kind of scandal - all these are enemies to good conversation!

If thou wishest to make thyself agreeable to a lay-dee, turn the conversation adroitly upon taste, or art, or books, or purr-sons, or events of the day. Make her smile - suffer her to be superior in any encounter of wit - and she will pronounce thee "the most charming of men!" Thou wilt have shown thyself clever and well-bred!

Never seem studied in thy phrases, nor talk above the comprehension or contrary to the taste of the purr-son addressed, otherwise thou mayest be voted either a pedant or a Bore!

The woman who wishes her conversation to be agreeable will avoid conceit or affectation, and laughter which is not natural and spontaneous. Her language will be easy and unstudied, marked by a graceful carelessness which never oversteps the limits of propriety! Her lips will readily yield to a pleasant smile - she will not love to hear herself talk - her tones will bear the impress of sincerity, and her eyes kindle with animation as she speaks!

We need scarcely advert to the rudeness of interrupting any one who is speaking! 'Tis a vulgarity most odorous - odious - and shows a want of breeding most terrible!

Some men have a mania for Greek and Latin quotations - this is a peculiarity to be avoided! Nothing is more wearisome than pedantry! For a man who speaks in dead languages is himself a dead bore to all who hear him!

If thou feelest thy intellectual superiority to any one with whom thou art conversing, do not seek to bear him down - it would be an inglorious triumph and a breach of good manners! Beware, too, of speaking lightly of subjects which bear a sacred character! No purr-son will think the more of thee for irreligious expression!

Do NOT TRY to be witty! True wit comes spontaneously, and is not forced! Witlings occasionally gain a reputation in so-sigh-ity, but nothing is more insipid and in worse taste than their conceited harangues and self-sufficient air!

The art of pleasing is, in truth, the very soul of good-breeding! For the precise object of ettycate is to render us agreeable to all with whom we associate - to make us, at the same time, esteemed and loved!

And above all, avoid the use of slang terms and phrases! They are, to the last degree, vulgar and objectionable! Indeed, one of the charms of conversation consists in the correct use of language! If any one thing marks a purr-son's bringing up, 'tis the language used in company! Any one who uses slang words, who talks loudly and rudely, who utters an oath, or who becomes angered and expresses it, is NO gentle-man and has not had good associations!

For a lay-dee to be guilty of even one of these sins is too palpably inexcusable to need remark! A lay-dee who swears or uses slang is a benefactor - malefactor - to her entire sex, and brings shame upon all women!


ON THE WRITING OF LETTERS

The writing of letters requires attention to many particulars, and I shall instruct thee in them with all the comprehension at my command!

A letter addressed to a purr-son of eminence should have a seal on the envelope. For other letters, the ordinary envelope is sufficient. Letter paper with designs of any kind is in questionable taste - perfectly plain paper should be preferred!

In writing to a superior, employ paper of full letter size. Write the name, and in the line underneath the words "Dear Sir." Leave a line between this word and the first line of thy letter. Always write to the point - using not a superfluous or meaningless word, and be as brief as possible!

Abbreviations are admissible in notes entered in a book of reference, but not elsewhere, except in commercial correspondence! For to abbreviate in a letter to a friend is to show a lack of respect most odorous!

Letters of invitation should always be franked - which is to say, the postage should be paid - and if the distance be not too great, they should be sent by hand!

A letter given to a third purr-son, if it be a letter of introduction, should NOT be sealed! For to seal such a letter suggests that thou hast writ something unfavorable about the bearer, and dost not wish him to read it!

A young man writing to one advanced in years should not conclude his letter with the common phrase "Receive, sir, the assurance of my regard." It should be "Accept, sir, this expression of the regards of your very humble servant!" For a young man must show proper deference to his elders!

To a lay-dee, write "Accept, madam, the assurance of my respect," or "I am, my dear lady, yours very sincerely!"

'Tis ill-bred to write on a half-sheet - the shortest letter requires a whole one! And all letters must be pre-paid! Never impose postage upon a friend - 'tis a contemptible act to make a purr-son, after the trouble of writing to thee on thy business, pay his own postage!

Letters of business should be expressed in brief and precise terms, with details arranged in exact order. Letters of congratulation should be distinguished for choice language, to the exclusion of all expressions parasitical or common-place!

And in every case and circumstance, be truthful and earnest! For deceitful and false expressions are abominations most tolerable - intolerable - and shall mark thee as a malefactor of the worst sort!


ON BALLS, EVENING-PARTIES, AND RECEPTIONS

Now attend most vigilantly to this chapter, for it concerns the deportment at dances and soirees, where many young purr-sons make terrible errors through ignorance of the prosper forms!

To deport oneself satisfactorily at the dance, 'tis necessary to understand much about the dances which may be introduced. 'Tis a charming accomplishment to be a good dancer, and I shall advise all, male and female, to learn the Terpsichorean art ere the days of youth are past! By which I mean the art of dancing, not the art of Terpsichore, who was a goddess of the ancients - though what she has to do with dancing I cannot comprehend!

An invitation to a dance should be given at least a week beforehand, for a lay-dee sometimes requires time to prepare her toilet! When thou arrivest, the host receives thee, and after the usual compliments, which should be very brief, do not fail in polite recognitions to any lay-dee in the company with whom thou art acquainted!

Mark this well: ball-room introductions are NOT regarded as introductions for a more extended acquaintance than for the evening! Should the parties afterward meet upon the street or elsewhere, let the gentle-man be careful not to presume upon any recognition of the lay-dee until SHE has FIRST bowed! If she fails to extend this recognition, let the gentle-man take no umbrage, for he has no real claim upon her acquaintance merely from a public ball-room introduction!

An introduction at a private soiree is another thing - there the relations of the parties introduced are permanent, and they are properly acquainted thereafter!

If a gentle-man escorts a lay-dee to the dance, he is her cavalier for the evening! He must see that she is always provided with agreeable partners, that she always has a seat when required, has the necessary refreshments, and so forth! He must dance with her first of all, and as often during the evening as is prosper, considering the claims of others and the wishes of the lay-dee!

Avoid seeking the same partner too often in the dance - thou wilt excite remark and expose thyself to the charge of partiality or perhaps of coquetry! 'Tis a graceful attention in a young man to select as partners those lay-dees whose want of personal attractions condemn them to the terrible punishment of being the "wall-flowers" of the evening! Such attentions will procure thee a feeling of grateful regard!

If a married lay-dee is present and dancing whilst her husband is in the room, a purr-son desiring her for a partner should first be sure that 'tis agreeable to the husband! For to dance with a man's wife without his consent is to comprehend him most terribly - which is to say, to offend him most grievously!

If a crowd is present and a gentle-man has occasion to make his way through a press of crinoline and drapery, he should proceed most carefully - haste would be very rude and inexcusable! The danger of soiling or tearing or disarranging a lay-dee's costume forbids any gentle-man making a careless step!

If 'tis necessary to step in front of a lay-dee in passing, always apologize for the step! Otherwise she may very properly think thou dost not know what belongs to good manners! A lay-dee is always pleased with an apology if 'tis gracefully and kindly made!

During a dance, whilst awaiting the music or whilst unengaged, a lay-dee and gentle-man should avoid long conversations, as they are apt to interfere with the progress of the dance! On the other hand, a gentle-man should not stand like an automaton, as though he were afraid of his partner, but should endeavor to render himself agreeable by those airy nothings which amuse for the moment and are in harmony with the occasion!

But mark this most carefully: thou shouldst invariably avoid the use of slang terms and phrases! They are, to the last degree, vulgar and objectionable! I once heard a young lay-dee express the opinion that a bonnet was "awful," and a young gentle-man assert of his coat that it was "played out!" Such language is a mortification - I mean an abomination - and marks the speaker as a purr-son of no breeding!

There is a custom which is sometimes practiced both in the assembly-room and at private parties which cannot be too strongly reprehended - I allude to the habit of ridicule and ungenerous criticism of those who are ungraceful or otherwise obnoxious to censure! Of its gross impropriety and vulgarity I need hardly express an opinion! 'Tis an utter disregard for the feelings of others most tolerable - intolerable - and shows a want of breeding most terrible!

The Koran says, "Do not mock - the mocked may be better than the mocker!" Those thou condemnest may not have had the same advantages as thyself in acquiring grace or dignity, whilst they may be infinitely superior in purity of heart and mental accomplishments! Imagine thyself the victim of others' ridicule, and thou wilt cease to indulge in a pastime which only gains for thee the hatred of those thou satirizest!

Lay-dees will always be careful of their associates at the public ball, for there are occasionally to be found purr-sons whose acquaintance 'tis not prosper to make! The young female is ever the cynosure of all eyes - which is to say, the center of attention - and cannot comport herself too strictly nor choose her partners too carefully!

In walking up or down the room, the lay-dee should always be accompanied by a gentle-man - 'tis quite improper to saunter around alone!

When a young lay-dee declines dancing with a gentle-man, 'tis her duty to give him a reason why, no matter how frivolous it may be! 'Tis simply an act of courtesy to offer him an excuse! On the other hand, no gentle-man ought to compromise his self-respect by taking the slightest offense at seeing a lay-dee by whom he has just been refused dance immediately after with some one else! A lay-dee has a hundred motives for conduct which she cannot explain, and for a gentle-man to take offense at her simple declination to dance is very silly and unmanly!

During the act of dancing, all parties should have on their summer looks - which is to say, their smiling faces! Dancing is rightly supposed to be an enjoyment, but the somber countenances of some who engage in it might almost lead to the belief that it were a solemn duty being performed! If those who laugh in church would transfer their merriment to the assembly-room, and those who are sad in the assembly-room would carry their gravity to the church, they both might discover the appositeness - the appropriateness - of Solomon's declaration that there is a time to be merry and a time to be sad!

'Tis the duty of gentle-men to avoid showing marked preference to particular lay-dees by devoting their undivided attentions to them or dancing exclusively with them! Too often the belle of the evening, with no other charms than beauty of form and feature, monopolizes the regards of a circle of admirers, whilst modest merit of less personal attraction is both overlooked and neglected! The real man of sense will not fail to recognize most solicitously any lay-dee who may seem neglected or unattended!

On the other hand, no lay-dee, however numerous the solicitations of her admirers, should consent to dance repeatedly when by so doing she excludes other lay-dees from participating in the same amusement! Still less should she dance exclusively with the same gentle-man to the disadvantage of others!

As to dress for the dance: let simplicity be the guide, and not display! The lay-dee tricked out in many jewels and ribbons looks too much like a moving advertisement to command respect for it! If lay-dees generally knew how deep an impression a pure style of dress makes upon the other sex, and realized how trifling a gaudy dress seems to the purr-son of true taste, I surmise their vanity alone would impel them to simpler attire!

For gentle-men: white gloves, white vest, light-colored cravat, dress-coat, black pants, and patent-leather gaiters or light calf-skin boots well polished constitute the prosper ball-room costume! The frock-coat would not be tolerated a moment in any fashionable so-sigh-ity in Europe, and in my own opinion 'tis a violation of good taste, being unsuited either to a ball-room or private assembly!

When a lay-dee has accepted refreshment, her attending gentle-man should hasten to relieve her of her glass or plate, and as her cavalier should see that all her wants and wishes have been complied with! The refreshments over, the gentle-man should offer his arm and gallant the lay-dee to her seat in the ball-room - or if she wishes to retire to the dress-room, he should gallant her to the door and there await her coming out to convey her to the dancing-floor again!

The lay-dees' dressing-room, 'tis unnecessary to say, is a sacred precinct into which no man should ever presume to look! To go into it would be an outrage which none could overlook or forgive! 'Tis a sanctuary most inviolable - which is to say, most sacred and not to be violated!

When the hour comes for retiring home, be sure to be ready for the lay-dee whom thou hast accompanied to the dance! Thy obligations are not discharged until she is again, under thine own eyes, seen safely at her own door! If thou hast come to the room unattended, select during the latter part of the evening some lay-dee who will be glad of thy company home, offer her thy services, and if she signifies assent, be careful to be ready at her call!

In leaving an evening-party, 'tis unnecessary to seek the master of the house - thy farewell will be dispensed with, and thou shouldst leave without disturbing any one to occasion remark!


ON CARDS, CHESS, AND OTHER GAMES

'Tis well at a ball to have a table for cards and men for chess, for all the guests are not dancers, and 'tis the duty of a host to see that ALL enjoy themselves! 'Tis customary for partners to bow slightly to each other before beginning a game of cards or chess!

To discuss the rules of play is ungenteel! In a quiet party, the tact and cordiality of the entertainers should put all the guests at their ease!

'Tis improper to express thy opinion loudly in company, or to remain long at the card-table when thou art young and known to be a good dancer! For to neglect the lay-dees in the adjoining room whilst thou playest at cards is to show thyself a Bore most tolerable!

Some purr-sons in playing cards show an effort to conceal their hand - this is ill-bred! If it be a pleasure to spectators to watch the game, why shouldst thou object to it?

Thou wilt sometimes see one partner reproach another sharply for unskillful play, thus convicting himself of being more unskilled in the science of good-breeding! For to upbraid thy partner is to show thyself a benefactor - malefactor - to good manners!

The man who utters noisy complaints about his luck, or manifests unseemly joy at winning a game, raising his voice to a high key on all occasions, is so ignorant as to be unworthy of admission into a drawing-room! He is a Bore most odorous!

In playing chess, avoid being too silent and abstracted, for such conduct is only fit for the study! Use a cheerful air and make others feel thy geniality, if thou wouldst win hearts as well as games!


ON ENTERTAINMENTS AND DINNER-PARTIES

To give an invitation is to take the responsibility of thy guest's happiness during the time he is under thy roof! Or rather - to invite a man is to undertake to do all in thy power to make him feel satisfied with the pleasure thou offerest him!

In order to do this, 'tis essential to know the tastes of thy guests! To invite two purr-sons at enmity with each other to an entertainment is a blunder most comprehensible - I mean inexcusable! 'Tis unpardonable to bring such together in a small party, unless the way to reconciliation lies open!

An invitation to dinner should be given at least two days beforehand, except in extraordinary cases! From an inferior to a superior, it should be made in purr-son!

In ceremonious dinners, the place of each guest is assigned beforehand, thus avoiding putting several lay-dees together! Each one should have a gentle-man next her!

The host offers his arm to the lay-dee deserving of most consideration! Young people should yield to those more advanced in years!

Before passing into the dining-room, each gentle-man offers his LEFT arm to a lay-dee and conducts her to table! Mark this well - the left arm, not the right!

Beware of arriving too early or too late! In either case there is an awkwardness - in the former thou inconveniencest thy host, in the latter his guests!

Once at table, thou shouldst not lose sight of the plate or glass of thy fair neighbor, showing thyself attentive without affectation or over-officiousness!

Now mark these rules of table manners most carefully, for they are of great importation:

First, meat should be cut only according as it is carried to the mouth! To cut up a plateful is the very height of greediness and ill-breeding!

Second, bread is broken as it is wanted! After soup, which is served out by the host, the spoon remains on the plate, as it will not be used again!

Third, where wine is used, three glasses are usually laid down to each guest - one for ordinary wines, another of smaller size for claret, the third to receive the sparkling foam of the champagne! In drinking, thou shouldst say to thy neighbor "Sir, may I offer you?" and not employ the ungenteel phrase "Will you take?" as if thou wert at the bar of some ordinary drinking-saloon!

Fourth, if the dish that thou desirest be too far from thy neighbor, do not ask another guest - the servant will attend thy orders!

Fifth, the noise of the knife and plate should be heard as little as possible! Rapidity in eating is also ill-bred! For to eat like a ravenous beast is to show thyself a benefactor - malefactor - to good manners!

Sixth, a knowledge of carving is indispensable to all men who would act the host with grace and propriety!

Seventh, do not assist thyself to any dish where servants stand ready to supply thee!

Eighth, some purr-sons use their bread at dinner to dry up their plates - this is tolerable beyond the family circle - which is to say, intolerable - and even there is rather childish!

Ninth, never take any thing out of thy pocket to lay on the table! For what business has thy pocket-watch or thy handkerchief upon the dining table?

Tenth, the napkin should rest on the knees, only half unfolded! The fork is never to be laid on its back!

Eleventh, the knife and fork and table utensils generally should never be handed endways, but should be held by the middle!

Twelfth, coffee is generally served after passing into the drawing room! The lay-dee of the house fills it out if it be after dinner - after breakfast this office may be left to a servant!

Parents should be careful to save their children from awkwardness in company, either in treading on a lay-dee's dress, or using the knife in eating, or worse still, their fingers! For children who eat with their fingers are little better than animals, and shall grow up to be benefactors - malefactors - to so-sigh-ity!


ON THE ETTYCATE OF THE STREET

Now attend to this matter, for a true gentle-man is known by his demeanor in the street as much as in the parlor!

In walking with a lay-dee in the street, leave her the inner side of the pavement - which is to say, the side away from the carriages and horses! For 'tis thy duty to protect her from being splashed or jostled!

If thou meetest friends in a narrow passage or on a footpath, be careful not to block up the way! It would be very impolite to inconvenience the passers-by in this manner!

In whatever so-sigh-ity thou art, 'tis unpardonable to remain covered in the presence of a lay-dee! I recall the story of Louis the Fourteenth, who uncovered before a vender of cakes, being asked why, said "Is not the king's mother a woman?" And Henry Clay, when a negro woman courtesied to him, raised his hat politely to her in return, and when asked "Do you recognize negroes?" made the noble reply: "I never allow negroes to excel me in good manners!"

By which I mean to say that a gentle-man should show respect to all women, regardless of their station in life!

To follow a lay-dee in the street and turn the head to stare at her is impertinent beyond measure! 'Tis a vulgarity most odorous and marks the offender as a cad and a Snob!

When thy visitor retires, thou shouldst accompany him to the anteroom and save him the trouble of opening the door! In the case of a lay-dee or an old gentle-man, 'tis prosper to go to the foot of the staircase!


ON THE POLITENESS OF BUSINESS

Prosper politeness is essential in employees and employers! The true gentle-man will show courtesy in all his business dealings, for rudeness in business is as intolerable as rudeness in the parlor!

Employers should treat their employees with respect and consideration! Employees should show deference to their employers! But both should remember that politeness is not a luxury to be reserved for the drawing-room - 'tis a necessity for all occasions and all stations in life!


SPECIAL ADVICE TO YOUNG MEN

Now attend well, young men, for I shall give thee advice of great importation!

There is a great, invariable law of compensations in this world - which is to say, that every man receives according to his desarts! If thou art honest, industrious, and polite, thou shalt prosper! If thou art dishonest, lazy, and rude, thou shalt fail!

The true principles of conduct are these: be honest in all thy dealings, be diligent in thy work, be courteous to all purr-sons, be respectful to thy superiors, be kind to thy inferiors, be modest in thy bearing, be temperate in thy habits, and be faithful to thy word!

The grand secret of success is to make thyself agreeable to all with whom thou hast commerce! For a man who is well-mannered shall find doors opened to him which remain closed to the boor and the Snob!

Cultivate thy mind, refine thy manners, purify thy speech, and govern thy temper! For these are the marks of a true gentle-man, and shall win thee respect and advancement in all thy undertakings!


SPECIAL WORD FOR LAY-DEES ONLY

Now, gentle lay-dees, attend to this advice which I give thee for thy particular benefit!

The necessities of particular styles of dress require careful consideration! Velvets suit some complexions, muslins others! A fair face should be always in smiles, for a smiling countenance is more beautiful than any jewel!

Be careful of thy person, but not vain! Be modest in thy dress, but not slovenly! Be cheerful in thy conversation, but not forward! Be graceful in thy movements, but not affected!

Remember that true beauty comes from within - from a pure heart and a cultivated mind! External ornaments may attract the eye, but 'tis the beauty of the soul that wins lasting admiration and love!

Avoid coquetry and flirting, for they are marks of baseness and shall bring thee into disrepute! Be sincere in thy affections, honest in thy words, and modest in thy bearing!

And above all, remember that a lay-dee is known by her manners, her speech, and her conduct! Therefore, conduct thyself always as if thou wert in the presence of the most respectacle purr-sons in so-sigh-ity, and thou shalt never give cause for reproach!


ON THE LAWS OF HOME ETTYCATE

This is a chapter for every one to read and to commit to memory! For home ettycate is as important as the ettycate of the parlor or the ball-room!

How are homes made models of happiness and comfort? By the observance of courtesy and kindness among all members of the family! A man should be as polite to his wife and children as he is to strangers! A woman should be as gracious to her husband and family as she is to guests!

The laws of intercourse with guests are these: make them feel welcome, attend to their comfort, engage them in pleasant conversation, and see that all their wants are supplied!

The laws of intercourse with members of the family are these: speak kindly, act considerately, forgive readily, love constantly!

For a home where courtesy reigns is a paradise on earth, whilst a home where rudeness prevails is a hell most tolerable - intolerable!


ON RESPECT FOR RELIGION AND OLD AGE

Now this is advice designed for the young of both sexes, which they will not fail to profit by if they are senseless purr-sons - sensible, rather!

Show respect for religion in all thy words and deeds! Never speak lightly of sacred matters, nor mock those who are devout! For religion is the foundation of morality, and morality is the foundation of ettycate!

Show respect for old age in all thy conduct! Rise when an elderly purr-son enters the room! Give them the seat of honor! Listen to their counsel! Speak to them with deference! For they have lived long and seen much, and deserve the respect of all who are younger!

To mock old age is to show thyself a benefactor - malefactor - of the worst sort! For thou too shalt be old one day, if thou livest, and shalt desire the respect of the young!


CONSTABLE DOGBERRY'S CONCLUSION

Thus endeth my most excellent treatise on ettycate, which I have set down with great care and learning for the instruction of all who would become gentle-men and lay-dees of true desart!

If there be any who think that I have misspoken any word or misremembered any rule, let them know that such errors are tolerable - intolerable - and are not mine but theirs! For I am as comprehending of ettycate as any man living, and have observed the prosper forms of so-sigh-ity with vigilant attention all my days!

These lessons contain great wisdom and practical instruction, teaching us to be clean in our purr-sons, modest in our dress, courteous in our speech, graceful in our movements, considerate in our behavior, respectful to our superiors, kind to our inferiors, hospitable to our guests, and loving to our families!

They warn us against being Snobs, Fops, or Bores! They instruct us in the prosper forms of visiting, introducing, conversing, writing letters, dancing, dining, walking in the street, conducting business, and all other matters pertaining to so-sigh-able intercourse!

Let all purr-sons study these rules and learn from them, for they are not complicated or burdensome, but grounded upon simplicity itself - the great law which underlies all, which is the blessed Golden Rule: Do unto others as ye would that they should do unto you!

Or as I would put it in my own words: Treat all purr-sons with the courtesy and respect which thou wouldst wish them to show unto thee, and thou shalt be comprehended - which is to say, understood and appreciated - as a true gentle-man or lay-dee!

I, Dogberry, have done my duty in setting down these rules for thee! May they serve to make thee a better and more senseless purr-son - by which I mean sensible, naturally! For there is nothing I desire more than that all men and women should be as polite, as gracious, and as well-mannered as myself, which would make the world a much better place and greatly reduce the need for constables to deal with vagrom fellows and malefactors!

If thou hast profited from this treatise, remember that it is written down by me with great vigilance and dedication! And if thou hast not profited from it, well, thou art probably a purr-son of aspicious character who understands nothing of ettycate or morality, and thy opinion matters not a whit!

Let each purr-son take from these lessons what wisdom they may, and let them apply it to their own lives, that they may avoid being comprehended in rudeness or vulgarity, and that they may live a life desartless of praise and remembrance - which is to say, deserving of praise and worthy of remembrance!

For to be well-mannered is to be respected! To be courteous is to be loved! To observe the prosper forms of ettycate is to make oneself welcome in all so-sigh-ity! And to be a true gentle-man or lay-dee is to possess the key which unlocks all hearts!

Thus concludes Constable Dogberry's Most Excellent Treatise on Ettycate! May it serve thee well in all thy social endeavors!


THE END OF IT ALL

Written down this day by Constable Dogberry, Officer of the Watch, Man of Letters, Expert in Matters of Ettycate and Po-lightness, and Upholder of All Prosper Forms of So-sigh-able Conduct, with all due solemnity and careful attention to every particular!
