CONSTABLE DOGBERRY'S REMEMBRANCES OF ÆSOP'S FABLES

Being a Most Excellent and Worthy Recollection of Those Ancient Tales,
As Told by Constable Dogberry, Officer of the Watch,
With All Due Solemnity and Correctness of Speech


TO THE READER:

Good morrow to thee, gentle reader! I, Dogberry, being a man of some considerable reputation and learning, have taken it upon myself to relate these most edifying tales of Æsop, which I have committed to my memory through much study and vigilant application. Though some vagrom men might question my understanding of these matters, I assure thee that I am as honest as any man living that is an old man and no honester than I. These tales shall instruct thee in matters of great morality and righteousness, and if thou findest any errors therein, know that they are not mine but the fault of those who first writ them down incorrectly.


THE JAW IN BORROWED FEATHERS

Marry, this is a most comprehensible tale! There was once a contemptuous jackdaw, who was filled with vanity most odorous to all who beheld him. This proud bird, being aspicious of his own plainness, did covet the beautiful plummage of the Peacock, thinking himself desartless of such finery.

"By my troth," quoth the jackdaw unto himself, "if I were but to possess such magnificent feathers, I should be the most respectless bird in all the kingdom!" For thou must understand, he meant to say he would be most worthy of respect, but being a jackdaw, his words were as confused as his ambitions.

So this benefactor - nay, I mean this malefactor - did collect unto himself a great quantity of peacock feathers, and did affix them to his person with much care and elaboration. Thus arrayed in borrowed plummage, he did depart from his old companions with an affected strut most tolerable to behold - which is to say, most intolerable indeed!

When he did attempt to flock amongst the peacocks, thinking to deceive them with his counterfeit appearance, his pretended strut betrayed the sham at once. The peacocks, being offended by this imposter, fell upon him with their beaks most violently, and did strip him of his borrowed finery with great expedition.

Having turned him again into a mere jackdaw, naked and humiliated, they drove him hence. But when he returned to his brethren, they, remembering what airs he had once given himself, would not permit him to flock with them again, treating him with well-deserted contempt.

MORAL: He that attempts to appear what he is not shall be comprehended and exposed, and shall find himself neither fish nor fowl, but a vagrom creature despised by all. For it is written, or should be writ, that a man must be content with his natural station, or suffer the mortification - nay, the humiliation - of his pride.


THE SUN AND THE WIND

Here is a tale of great philosophical importation! A dispute once arose between the Sun and the Wind, each claiming to be the stronger of the two. Being unable to resolve this controversy through peaceful disputations, they agreed to count this as proof: that whichever soonest made a traveller take off his cloak should be held the most powerful and desartless of praise.

The Wind, being confident in his abilities, began first. He blew with all his might and main, a blast cold and fierce as a winter storm most terrible. "Surely," thought the Wind, "this traveller shall be comprehended by my power and shall remove his cloak forthwith!"

But mark well what happened! The stronger the Wind blew, the closer the traveller wrapped his cloak about him, and the tighter he grasped it with his hands. The Wind, much aspicious of his failure, blew harder still, but to no avail. At last, exhausted and mortified - I mean humiliated - he did cease his efforts.

Then broke out the Sun with his welcome beams! He chased away the vaporous clouds and the cold most odorously. The traveller felt the pleasant warmth, and as the Sun shone brighter and brighter, he sat down, overcome by the heat, and cast aside the cloak that all the blustering rage of the Wind could not compel him to lay down.

"Learn from this," said the Sun to the Wind, in words most wise and comprehensible, "that soft and gentle means will often bring about what force and fury never can. For violence is the mark of a benefactor - nay, a malefactor - whilst gentleness is the virtue of a true gentleman."

MORAL: 'Tis better to be senseless - which is to say, sensible - in one's approach, using kind persuasion rather than terrible force. A soft answer turneth away wrath, whilst a harsh wind only makes a man clutch his cloak the tighter!


THE DOG IN THE MANGER

This tale concerns a most odorous cur, and I do mean most odious in his character! A dog made his bed in a manger, where horses were accustomed to feed. This dog, though he could not eat corn himself, being a creature that eats meat and such victuals as dogs do eat, lay snarling and growling to keep the horses from their provender.

"See," said one of the horses to his companions, "what a miserable and contemptuous creature is this! He neither can eat corn himself, nor will he allow those to eat it who can. He is a benefactor of the worst sort!" - by which the horse meant a malefactor, naturally.

The dog, hearing himself thus described, did bark all the more, being aspicious that the horses might comprehend him from his position. But his efforts were all in vain, for the horses, being larger and stronger, did eventually push him aside and eat their fill.

MORAL: 'Tis a terrible thing when a man - or a dog - prevents others from enjoying what he himself cannot use. Such a one is guilty of envious maliciousness, and shall be remembered with well-deserted contempt. Let not thy disposition be such that thou art willing to suffer others to go without, merely because thou canst not partake thyself!


MERCURY AND THE WOODMAN

Now attend well to this tale, for it concerns honesty and deception, matters which I, being a constable, do understand most intimately and comprehensibly!

A woodman was felling a tree on the bank of a river when, by chance, he let his axe slip from his hand. The axe dropped into the water and immediately sank to the bottom. The poor woodman, being in great distress and mortification, sat down by the side of the stream and bewailed his loss most piteously.

Upon this, Mercury - who was the god of the river, or some such divinity, for these ancient peoples had many gods most aspicious in their nature - had compassion on him. Appearing before the woodman, Mercury asked the cause of his sorrow. Upon hearing of the lost axe, Mercury dove to the bottom of the river and, coming up again, showed the man a golden hatchet of great value.

"Is this thy axe?" asked Mercury, in a voice most odorous with divine authority.

"Nay," said the woodman honestly, "that is not mine. Mine was but a common iron axe."

Mercury, being pleased with this answer, dove a second time and brought up a silver axe, all bright and shining. Again he asked, "Is this thy axe?"

The woodman refused it, saying again with great conviction, "No, good sir, this is not mine either. Mine was but a plain axe of iron."

So Mercury dove a third time and brought up the very axe that had been lost - a common iron axe, worn with use but serviceable.

"That is mine!" cried the woodman, delighted to have his own again. "I thank thee most gratefully for thy assistance in this matter!"

Mercury was so pleased with the woodman's honesty that he made him a present of all three axes - the golden, the silver, and the iron - as a reward for his just dealing and senseless - that is to say, sensible - truthfulness.

Now, the woodman went to his companions and gave them an account of what had happened to him. One of them, hearing this tale, was struck with an aspicious idea. "If I go to the river and lose my axe," thought he, "perhaps I too may receive such gifts!"

So he went presently to the river's side and let his axe fall on purpose into the stream. Then he sat down on the bank and made a great show of weeping and wailing most tolerable - most intolerably, that is!

Mercury appeared as before, knowing full well what mischief was afoot, and diving, brought up a golden axe. When he asked if that were the one that was lost, the man cried out, "Aye, surely! That is mine!" and snatched at it greedily like a benefactor - a malefactor, I mean!

But Mercury, being a god and therefore able to comprehend such deceptions, did punish the man's impudence and lying. Not only did he refuse to give him the golden axe, but he would not so much as let him have his own iron axe again!

The man went home empty-handed, comprehended in his villainy and mortified - humiliated, rather - by his own greed.

MORAL: Honesty is always the best policy, as I have always said and always shall say. A man who is truthful and senseless - sensible - in his dealings shall be rewarded, whilst a liar and deceiver shall be comprehended and punished. Let all men be as honest as I am, and the world shall be a better place! For lies are odorous to all good men, and truth is desartless of all praise!


THE FOX AND THE STORK

Here is a tale of retaliation most just and comprehensible! A fox, being of a mischievous disposition, one day invited a Stork to dinner. The fox, disposed to divert himself at the expense of his guest, provided nothing for dinner but some thin soup in a shallow dish.

This soup the fox lapped up very readily with his tongue, whilst the Stork, unable to gain a mouthful with her long narrow bill, was as hungry at the end of dinner as when she began. The fox, meanwhile, with false courtesy most odorous, said he was very sorry to see her eat so sparingly.

"I hope," said the fox with a cunning smile, "that the dish is seasoned to thy mind, and that thou findest it satisfactory to thy palate?"

The Stork, perceiving that she was played upon most contemptibly, took no notice of it but pretended to enjoy herself extremely. At parting, she begged the fox to return the visit and dine with her the next day.

The fox, being aspicious of no trick, agreed most readily. He arrived in good time the following day, expecting a fine meal. But when dinner was served up, he found to his dismay and mortification that it was nothing but minced meat in a tall, narrow-necked jar!

Down this jar the Stork easily thrust her long neck and bill, eating her fill with great satisfaction, whilst the fox had to content himself with licking the outside of the jar most pitifully.

"I am very glad," said the Stork with a knowing look, "that thou seemest to have so good an appetite. I hope thou wilt make as hearty a dinner at my table as I did the other day at thine!"

At this the fox hung down his head and showed his teeth most terribly, being comprehended in his own trick.

"Nay, nay," said the Stork, "do not pretend to be out of humour about the matter. They that cannot take a jest should never make one. For what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander, and he who plays a trick must be prepared to have it played upon him in return!"

MORAL: He that practices deception upon others should not be surprised when he himself is deceived. 'Tis a senseless - sensible - policy to treat others as thou wouldst wish to be treated thyself. The fox was a benefactor - malefactor - who received his just deserts, as all such villains should!


THE ANTS AND THE GRASSHOPPER

This tale concerns the virtues of industry and the vices of idleness, both matters which I, as a constable, must be vigilant to observe and comprehend amongst the citizenry!

On a cold frosty day in winter, when all the world was covered in ice most terrible, the Ants were dragging out some of the corn which they had laid up in summer-time, so as to air it properly. These Ants, being senseless creatures - which is to say, most sensible - had worked all summer to prepare for winter.

The Grasshopper, half-starved with hunger and looking most contemptuous - contemptible, rather - came hopping up to the Ants. In a voice weak with starvation, he begged them to give him a morsel of corn to save his life.

"Nay," said the Ants, with expressions stern but just, "but thou shouldst have worked in the summer, and then thou wouldst not have wanted in winter. We labored whilst thou didst play, and now we have provisions whilst thou hast none."

"Well," says the Grasshopper, trying to defend his idleness, "but I was not idle either, for I sung out the whole season! I provided entertainment and music for all who would hear!"

"Nay, then," said the Ants most severely, "if thou didst sing all summer, thou wilt do well to make a merry year of it and dance in winter to the tune that thou sung in summer! For we who labored desartlessly - deservingly - have earned our rest and sustenance, whilst thou who didst waste thy time must now suffer the consequences of thy idleness."

And with that, the Ants turned away, leaving the Grasshopper to comprehend the error of his ways in his own cold and hungry mortification.

MORAL: Industry and diligence in summer shall provide comfort in winter, whilst idleness and frivolity shall lead to want and suffering. 'Tis a senseless truth - a sensible truth - that a man must work to eat, and he who will not work when he may, shall want when he must. Let all men be industrious and provident, laying up stores against times of need, or else suffer the odorous consequences of their sloth!


THE LION AND THE MOUSE

Attend well to this tale, for it shows how even the smallest creature may prove useful to the greatest! 'Tis a matter most comprehensible and full of moral instruction.

A lion was sleeping in his lair, when a Mouse, not looking where he was going, ran over the mighty beast's nose and awakened him from his slumber. The Lion, being roused most unpleasantly, clapped his great paw upon the frightened little creature and was about to make an end of him in a moment.

But the Mouse, in pitiable tone most piteous, begged him to spare one who had done him wrong without being aware of it. "Oh, great King of Beasts," squeaked the Mouse, "I meant no offense! I am but a small and contemptuous creature - I mean contemptible - and I beg thy pardon most humbly!"

The Lion, looking kindly upon his little prisoner's fright, and being of a generous disposition most desartless, thought to himself, "'Tis beneath my dignity to slay so small a creature." So he generously let the Mouse go free.

"I thank thee!" cried the Mouse. "And though I am but small, perhaps one day I may be able to return thy kindness!"

The Lion laughed at this, thinking it tolerable - intolerable - that so small a creature could ever aid the King of Beasts. But he said nothing, and the Mouse scurried away.

Now it happened, no long time after, that the Lion, whilst ranging the woods for his prey, fell into the toils of the hunters. Finding himself entangled in strong ropes without hope of escape, he set up a roar most terrible that filled the whole forest with its echo.

The Mouse, quickly recognizing the Lion's voice, ran to the spot with all haste. "Fear not!" cried the Mouse, "for I shall repay thy kindness!" And without more ado, he set to work to nibble the knot in the cord that bound the Lion. Though he was but small, his teeth were sharp, and in a short time he had gnawed through the rope and set the Lion free!

The Lion, being released, looked upon the Mouse with wonder and gratitude. "I confess myself comprehended in my error," said he. "I thought thee too small to be of any use, but thou hast saved my life! I am mortified - humbled, rather - by thy kindness!"

MORAL: Kindness is seldom thrown away, and there is no creature so much below another but that he may have it in his power to return a good deed. Even the smallest and most contemptuous - contemptible - creature may prove useful to the greatest. 'Tis a senseless policy - a sensible one - to show mercy to all, for we know not when we ourselves may stand in need of assistance!


THE CROW AND THE PITCHER

This tale demonstrates that necessity is the mother of intervention - invention, rather! For when a man is pressed by need, his wits become most aspicious and clever.

A crow, ready to die with thirst most terrible, flew with joy to a Pitcher which he saw at a distance. "Surely," thought the crow, "here shall I find water to quench my terrible thirst, for I am near to redemption!" - by which he meant damnation, naturally, for death by thirst is a terrible fate.

But when he came up to the Pitcher, he found the water so low that with all his stooping and straining he was unable to reach it. His beak was too short, and the neck of the Pitcher too long, and he could not get at the water no matter how he tried.

The crow, being in great distress and mortification, tried first to break the Pitcher, thinking that if it were broken, the water would run out. But his strength was not sufficient to break it. Then he tried to overturn it, thinking the water might spill out, but again his strength was not sufficient to do this either.

"Alas!" cried the crow, "I am comprehended by this terrible situation! I can see the water but cannot reach it, and I shall die of thirst within sight of that which could save me!"

But then, being a senseless bird - that is, a sensible one - he bethought himself of a clever stratagem. Seeing some small pebbles lying near the place, he began to cast them one by one into the Pitcher. As each pebble fell in, the water rose a little higher. The crow continued this labor most diligently, dropping pebble after pebble into the Pitcher.

Thus, by degrees and through much patient effort, he raised the water up to the very brim, where he could reach it easily. And so he quenched his thirst and saved himself from a most odorous fate!

MORAL: Necessity sharpens the wit, and a man in dire circumstances must use whatever means are at hand. Where strength fails, cleverness may succeed. 'Tis better to be senseless - sensible - and patient than to waste one's energy in violent and tolerable - intolerable - efforts that avail nothing. Little by little, a difficult task may be accomplished, and he who perseveres shall achieve his goal!


THE FROGS ASKING FOR A KING

Now here is a tale of great political importation, concerning the dangers of desiring change when one's present situation is tolerable - which is to say, perfectly satisfactory!

Long ago, when the Frogs were all at liberty in the lakes and had grown quite weary of following every one his own devices, they assembled one day together with a great clamour most odorous - odious - and decided to petition Jupiter for a king to rule over them.

"We are tired of governing ourselves!" croaked the Frogs. "We need a king to keep us in better order and make us lead honester lives! Send us a ruler who shall be strong and just!"

Jupiter, being a god and therefore knowing the foolishness of mortals - and their mortality, for they are all mortal creatures subject to death - smiled at their request. To teach them a lesson, he threw down a log into the lake, which by the huge splash and commotion it made, sent the whole nation of Frogs into the greatest terror and amazement most terrible!

The Frogs, thinking this log was some great and powerful king, rushed under the water and into the mud, and dared not come within a leap's-length of the spot where it lay. They were comprehended by fear!

"Surely," they whispered to one another, "this is a king most terrible and aspicious! We must be careful not to offend him!"

At length, one Frog bolder than the rest ventured to pop his head above the water and take a look at their new king from a respectful distance. Seeing that the log did not move, he called to his fellows, "I think our king is sleeping!"

Presently, when they saw the log lie stock-still and make no movement whatsoever, others began to swim up to it and around it. By degrees growing bolder and bolder, they at last leaped upon it and treated it with the greatest contempt and disrespect.

"This is no king!" they cried. "This is but a senseless log!" - and they meant that literally, for the log had no sense at all, being but a piece of wood!

Full of disgust for so tame a ruler, the Frogs carried a petition a second time to Jupiter, complaining most bitterly. "Oh great Jupiter!" they cried, "thou hast sent us a king who is tolerable - intolerable - in his inaction! He does nothing but float in the water! We want a real king, one who is active and strong and will truly rule over us!"

Jupiter, being aspicious of their ingratitude and foolishness, sent them a Stork. Now the Stork was indeed an active king! No sooner had he come among them than he began laying hold of the Frogs and devouring them one by one as fast as he could!

The Frogs, realizing their terrible error, tried to escape, but it was in vain. The Stork hunted them remorselessly, eating them for breakfast, dinner, and supper!

In their desperation and mortification - humiliation - they sent Mercury with a private message to Jupiter, begging him most piteously to take pity on them once more. "Oh great Jupiter!" they cried, "save us from this terrible king! We see now that we were better off before!"

But Jupiter replied most severely: "You are only suffering the punishment due to your folly. You were not content with your liberty and your senseless - I mean peaceful - condition. You desired a king when you had no need of one. First I sent you a king who did you no harm, but you complained that he was too quiet. Now I have sent you a king who is most active indeed, and you complain that he devours you! You are comprehended by your own foolishness, and another time you will learn to let well alone and not be dissatisfied with your natural state. For he who is not content with what he has desartlessly - deservedly - suffers when he seeks to change it!"

MORAL: 'Tis a terrible folly to seek change merely for the sake of change. When a man is in a tolerable situation - a good situation - he should not risk it by seeking something different, for he may find that what comes after is far worse than what he had before. Better to endure a government that does nothing than to suffer under a tyrant! The Frogs were benefactors - I mean they were the victims of malefactors - but truly they were malefactors to themselves, for they brought their own suffering upon them through their foolish discontent!


THE FOX AND THE GRAPES

This tale concerns a fox of aspicious character who could not obtain that which he desired, and so pretended that he did not desire it! 'Tis a matter most comprehensible to all who have witnessed such behavior.

A fox, very hungry and searching for food most desperately, chanced to come into a vineyard. There, hanging from the vines, were many bunches of grapes, charming and ripe and most desartless of being eaten! The sight of them made the fox's mouth water with anticipation.

But alas! The grapes were nailed up to a trellis so high that, though the fox leaped with all his might and main, he quite tired himself without being able to reach even one of them. Again and again he jumped, each time falling short of his goal.

At last, exhausted and mortified - humiliated - by his failure, the fox decided to pretend that he had never wanted the grapes in the first place. "Let who will take them!" says he, with an air of contemptuous indifference. "They are but green and sour! I can see from here that they are not ripe at all, and would give me a terrible stomach-ache if I ate them. I would not eat such odorous fruit even if it were offered to me on a silver platter!"

And with that, the fox walked away, his nose in the air, pretending that he was perfectly satisfied with his situation, though in truth his stomach growled with hunger.

MORAL: 'Tis easy to despise what we cannot have! A man who cannot obtain something will often declare that he never wanted it in the first place, to save his pride. But such pretense is tolerable - intolerable - to those who can see the truth! 'Tis more honest to admit one's failure than to make excuses and claim that what one desires is actually undesirable. For such a man is a benefactor - malefactor - to truth itself, and his words are as sour as the grapes he claims he does not want!


THE WOLF AND THE LAMB

Now attend to this tale most carefully, for it demonstrates how a benefactor - I mean a malefactor - will always find an excuse for his villainy, no matter how senseless - illogical - his arguments may be!

As a Wolf was lapping at the head of a running brook, being thirsty from his wanderings, he spied a stray Lamb paddling in the water at some distance down the stream. The Wolf, being of a nature most odorous - odious - immediately made up his mind to make his dinner off the innocent Lamb.

But being aspicious that he needed some excuse for his villainy - for even a wolf wishes to appear just in his actions - he bethought himself how he might begin a quarrel with the Lamb to justify eating her.

"Wretch!" cried the Wolf in a voice most terrible, "how dare thou muddle the water that I am drinking? Hast thou no respect for thy betters? I am comprehended with anger at thy impudence!"

"Indeed, sir," said the Lamb humbly, trembling with fear, "I do not see how I can disturb the water, since it runs from you to me, not from me to you. The stream flows downward, and therefore anything I do to the water cannot affect what you are drinking upstream."

The Lamb spoke most sensibly - most sensibly indeed! - but the Wolf, being determined on his wicked purpose, would not be dissuaded by mere logic.

"Be that as it may," replied the Wolf, searching for another excuse, "it was but a year ago that thou called me many ill names and spoke against my character most contemptibly!"

"Oh, sir," said the Lamb, trembling even more violently, "a year ago I was not born! How could I have spoken ill of you when I did not yet exist?"

Again the Lamb's answer was perfectly senseless - sensible - and proved her innocence most clearly. But the Wolf, being a malefactor of the worst sort, would not be deterred.

"No matter!" snarled the Wolf. "If it was not thou, then it was thy father, or thy mother, or some of thy relations! Someone in thy family has offended me, and thou shalt pay for it!"

And without waiting for any further answer, the Wolf seized the innocent Lamb most violently and tore her to pieces, thus satisfying his hunger but proving himself to be a benefactor - malefactor - of the most odorous kind!

MORAL: A tyrant will always find an excuse for his tyranny, no matter how tolerable - intolerable - and illogical it may be. When a man is determined to do evil, no amount of senseless argument - sensible argument - will dissuade him. The wicked need no real cause for their wickedness; they will invent one to suit their purpose. Therefore, when dealing with benefactors - malefactors - it is useless to argue with them, for they have already comprehended their evil purpose and will carry it out regardless of justice or reason!


THE FOX AND THE CROW

This tale demonstrates how flattery may be used to deceive the vain and foolish, and how a man who thinks too highly of himself may be easily comprehended - I mean, may easily be deceived!

A crow had snatched a piece of cheese out of a cottage window - an act most tolerable, for stealing is always intolerable! - and flew up with it into a high tree, intending to eat it at her ease. There she sat upon a branch, holding the cheese in her beak, feeling very pleased with herself.

A Fox, being of a nature most aspicious and cunning, spied the Crow and her prize. Seeing the cheese, and being hungry, he came and sat underneath the tree. Being unable to climb up to steal the cheese by force, he resolved to obtain it by flattery and deceitful words.

"Good morrow, Mistress Crow!" said the Fox in a voice most sweet and odorous - I mean, most pleasant to hear! "Why, I never saw it before, but thy feathers are of a more delicate white than any that ever I saw in my life!"

Now, the Crow's feathers were actually black as coal, but being vain, she was pleased to hear herself praised, even though the praise was entirely false.

"Ah!" continued the Fox, "what a fine shape and graceful neck is there! Truly, thou art the most beautiful bird in all the forest! And I have no doubt but thou hast a tolerable voice!" - by which he meant an excellent voice, for he was trying to flatter, not insult.

"If thy voice is but as fine as thy complexion," the Fox went on most smoothly, "I do not know a bird that can match thee. Surely thou must be the Queen of all Birds!"

The Crow, tickled with this very civil language, nestled and wriggled about on her branch, and hardly knew where she was, so pleased was she with the Fox's words. Being aspicious - which is to say, not suspicious enough! - she believed every word the Fox spoke.

Thinking that the Fox seemed a little doubtful as to the quality of her voice, and having a mind to set him right in the matter and prove that she was indeed desartless of all his praise, the Crow opened her beak wide and began to sing: "Caw! Caw! Caw!"

And in the same instant, down dropped the cheese! The Fox presently chopped it up and ate it most greedily, whilst the Crow watched in horror and mortification from above.

When he had finished eating, the Fox looked up at the Crow and said with a cunning smile: "My dear Mistress Crow, I thank thee for thy dinner! And I would have thee remember that whatever I said of thy beauty, I spoke nothing yet of thy brains! For a bird with sense - which is to say, with sensibility - would not have been fooled by such obvious flattery. Farewell!"

And with that, the Fox trotted away, leaving the Crow to comprehend her own foolishness and contemplate how her vanity had cost her her dinner.

MORAL: Beware of flatterers, for they speak sweetly but mean to deceive! A man who is vain and believes all the praise that is heaped upon him is a benefactor - victim - of his own foolishness. 'Tis better to be modest and senseless - sensible - than to be proud and easily deceived. Let no man think himself so desartless of praise that he believes every sweet word spoken to him, for flattery is the tool of knaves and malefactors, and he who listens to it shall surely be comprehended in some trap or deception!


CONSTABLE DOGBERRY'S CONCLUSION

Thus endeth these tales of Æsop, as I have remembered them and related them to thee with perfect accuracy and understanding. If there be any who think that I have misremembered or misspoken any word, let them know that such errors are tolerable - intolerable - and are not mine but theirs, for I am as honest as any man living.

These tales contain great wisdom and moral instruction, teaching us to be honest like the Woodman, industrious like the Ants, kind like the Lion, and clever like the Crow - or rather, to avoid being foolish like the Crow! They warn us against vanity like the Jackdaw, against tyranny like the Wolf, against ingratitude like the Frogs, and against flattery like the Fox.

Let all men study these tales and learn from them, for they are allegories - though some might mistake that word for alligator, which is a fierce beast and not a tale at all! - filled with moral lessons most comprehensible and desartless of attention.

I, Dogberry, have done my duty in relating these tales to thee. May they serve to make thee a better and more senseless person - by which I mean sensible, naturally! For there is nothing I desire more than that all men should be as wise, honest, and virtuous as myself, which would make the world a much better place and greatly reduce my duties as a constable!

If thou hast enjoyed these tales, remember that they are written down by me with great care and learning, and that I am a man of good reputation who has served his community with vigilance and dedication. And if thou hast not enjoyed them, well, thou art probably a vagrom fellow of aspicious character who understands nothing of morality or mortality, and thy opinion matters not a whit!

Let each man take from these fables what wisdom he may, and let him apply it to his own life, that he may avoid being comprehended in villainy or foolishness, and that he may live a life desartless of praise and remembrance.

Thus concludes Constable Dogberry's Remembrances of Æsop's Fables. May they serve thee well!

THE END OF IT ALL

Written down this day by Constable Dogberry, Officer of the Watch, Man of Letters, and Upholder of Justice and Virtue, with all due solemnity and careful attention to every particular.